so when Joe vegan made his latest come
back you know some people appreciated
his new comedy videos and thought they
were very funny you could see that a
comment section but a lot of people said
wow his new videos are not funny at all
you know the spark is gone whatever it
was that made the videos funny before
was gone comedy was part of my life when
I was younger and I really took a turn
at one point when I realized it wasn't
for me and I'm reminded of you know the
factors that went into that decision
when I look at the latest collapse of
Joe vegan I really think it's easy to
underestimate the extent to which all of
that has to come from a place of love
and admiration and positive aspirations
of the future in those days when he
first got started there was a lot of
love in the game he loved veganism as a
social movement he loved the content on
my channel and the people laughing with
the videos for them also there was this
sense of veganism being a lofty ambition
and in the contrast between that
ambition and how absurd these little
political squabbles were you know
whatever durianrider saying that I'm fat
or whatever the country it's a tech
North right the respect and admiration
had for veganism as a concept and a
movement is gone and what's left just
seems like a bitter angry shell of a man
you know you might think that bitterness
is a great source for comedy but it's
not that's what's really instructive
Joel vegans video has nothing to do with
the YouTube community veganism as a
whole this is only an adult crying not
taking responsibility for his own
actions and there's all mistakes nobody
told you to do anything you made a
decision and that's it blame yourself
not other people stop being a coward
give the money back to everyone that
donated money to you for this end with
sanctuary and if you don't give the
money back you are a scammer I've got a
few different things on my mind in this
video I'm going to talk about comedy and
the theater and the strange kind of
social engagement those are forms
require from you which is Subway's
similar to politics in my heart in my
mind and I'm going to talk about why I
decided
not to be involved with theater not to
bowl with comedy which I easily could
have done my whole life is very
different today if I'd stuck with you
know stand-up comedy at least so you can
easily do as a hobby while you're
pursuing other jobs even when you're
living in Asia even you're living in
strange parts of Canada or what have you
you'd be surprised if they're open mic
nights everywhere they're calm because
that'll have you and would stand up you
know you don't need a cast and crew you
don't need a bunch of costumes if you
just have a pen and paper and you write
down funny ideas when they come to you
you can very very easily keep up you
know stand up comedy as a hobby even if
you're living in Hong Kong even if
you're living in Saskatchewan and other
than I've been living in both yeah now
one time they he blame himself for his
mistakes all he cares doing was letting
other people backing him about not doing
the right thing you decided to do it you
chose to do adult decision you're an
adult you did it by myself Joe vegan
quit before and he sort of quit again
now after saying you would never quit he
was going to hold on to a social media
presence so on who conflicted guy so
when Joe vegan made his latest come back
you know some people appreciated his new
comedy videos and thought they were very
funny you could see that in comment
section but a lot of people said wow his
new videos are not funny at all you know
the spark is gone whatever it was that
made the videos funny before was gone
and you also saw a few people who were
kind of reflecting back on it and saying
he's saying well maybe I was wrong all
along maybe go vegan never was funny you
don't really maybe they remembered it as
being funny but it had never had the
spark that had never really been worth
watching that way so that was
interesting to see that range of
opinions now I tend to agree I felt the
new videos you made he made just a
couple of comedy videos in this
short-lived come back I agree I don't I
don't think they were funny but I think
what was missing that can be much more
specific isn't just some nebulous notion
of a spark it's only the guy lost his
talent but you know with all these art
forms as with political campaigning I
really think it's easy to ignore the
role of love in the game you know
[Music]
when I was involved in comedy I
ultimately came to the conclusion that I
didn't have enough love for my audience
to want to make them laugh you know what
I mean and with something like stand up
you know some stand-up comedians their
persona is harsh and castigating and
they ridicule the audience but still the
whole engagement with the society you're
living in and the people you're making
fun of even the people you parody there
really has to be a kind of love there
you know I maybe that's not the way
other people use the word love and the
obvious we're not talking about romantic
love we're not talking about love in
another sense but I mean there really is
a sense in which put it this way you
can't be making jokes on stage with the
attitude and the feeling in your heart
of this will keep this will keep those
bastards happy you know it can't be a
grudging relationship between boss and
employee you know I think they're really
does have to be a strange sort of love
there for the subject matter you're
portraying onstage for the audience
you're reaching out to the reactions
you're getting from the audience it's a
very peculiar thing and I had to I do
recognize one day I look myself in the
mirror you know most of so I wasn't born
in Toronto but most of my schooling most
of my upbringing was in Toronto Canada
and I could look around and talking
about white english-speaking Toronto
society it is just a culture that I
despise it's a culture I don't want to
be a part of it's an audience I don't
want to cater to what they find funny I
don't find funny and want to make a joke
that they do find funny I despise that
joke and I despised the audience for
laughing at you know what i mean and i
just realized in terms of my position in
that culture in you know white
english-speaking toronto canada i would
be miserable and that was that the I I
just did not have enough love in the
game to make to make comedy work for me
or for me to work for the audience you
know I mean this is something
that you have an issue with go vegan you
seem to care very much what other people
think about you and then affects your
life you have to bring nobody but
yourself about that you make a decision
that's your business and in a weird
sense now I mean I'm now teaching
University classes of students you know
40 students at a time and it's brought
back to my mind so often because you
really work the crowd you know sometimes
as a teacher being silly and getting the
students to laugh and sums you're being
serious the dynamics of how you work the
crowd I literally I stand behind a
podium and then I come down and walk in
the audience and talk to people it
really reminds me of the experience when
I was young being involved the theater
and being a vote with comedy and brings
back a lot of these reflections to my
mind I think a lot of you might not be
aware of the extent to which you know
Jill vegan when he first started doing
comedy I think I was the first person he
really did an impersonation of his
colleague channel it really did evolve
kind of organically so first he started
doing this impersonation of me and then
there was another turning point the
first time he did an impersonation of
Charles of the vegan cheetah that was a
little bit afraid was a couple weeks
later a couple videos later whatever it
was but you know so then he had this
full stable of impersonations because
first he was impersonating me and then
he started really putting some effort
into impersonating durianrider and
having durianrider and me talk to each
other did I remember the first time
Charles came on camera his impersonation
of Charles and then he had a whole
stable of characters and people loved it
people went nuts and when he first did
it the first couple of times you know he
didn't have he didn't have a wig he
didn't have the bold wig he was just had
all of his hair but he just did his kind
of wacky impression of a Canadian accent
and made up this spontaneous stuff about
me but you know in those days when he
first got started there was a lot of
love in the game he loved veganism as a
social movement he loved the content on
my channel and he wrote to me to tell me
that I got email from him saying how
deeply he respected the content on about
Michelle how he and his wife have
watched the videos together and it
really changed their lives and improved
their outlook on these political issues
and so on how much they appreciated me
now I know to an outside that might not
be obvious that you know at that time he
was
ridiculing me but it was ridiculed that
came from a place of love and respect
and admiration and being passionate
about the vegan movement as a whole we
can all sit back and laugh at my tiny
role in the vegan movement believe me I
laugh himself all the time I laugh at
the ridiculous you know elements of this
but still I mean as harsh or castigating
or critical as some of this common may
have been those early days it was coming
from a place of love and I saw the
turning point when he started to really
kind of hate me which was before he quit
the first time I felt at that point the
spark really went out of his comedy the
comment that was about me you know maybe
it didn't go out of his jokes about
during writers into the people i mean i
remember another turning point the first
time his wife came on camera playing the
role of vegan Ava that was the hardest i
ever laughed on his channel you know and
we suppose expected his wife came out
doing this phony Eastern European accent
when she first came on I didn't
recognize her you know so I thought it
was another youtuber but I didn't know
who she was and then it clicked oh my
god that's his life wearing a wig or
whatever you know and wow that that
really that really had me forward but
all of it all of it I mean it wasn't
coming from a place of you know harsh
condemnation for the vegan movement
there was love in the game ok I think he
even had love for her vegan Ava you know
it's been epic and I think he did talk
he had a mix of love for and hatred for
someone like durianrider to you know
this is the same guy who had an itch on
YouTube bashing up a vegan for
entertainment hey channel last year was
all about the vegan drama bashing people
picking on people calling people out no
just embarrassing people to make a good
video and that was this is joe vegan the
same guy crying about people are backing
him you are bashing people to think the
people laughing at the videos and the
people laughing with the videos for them
also there was this sense of veganism
being a lofty ambition and then the
contrast between that ambition and how
absurd these little political squad
were you know whatever durianrider is
saying that I'm fat or whatever the car
it's a techno earth right um that was
really I mean it's not about the spark
in his eyes that was the light that made
the whole thing shine that made the you
know the audience so excited about it at
the time and people really did get
excited and at one point course he had a
much smaller audience than I did and
then I got to see his audience grow even
bigger it's like okay I remember
explaining it to my chinese teacher
saying you know there's this other
channel that does like a weekly show
impersonating me because I was a regular
character on this show does a fictional
first me and the the fictional version
of me is more popular than I am you know
there are more viewers you're lucky I
was explaining that in Chinese device
yetiz teacher and having a laugh about
it you know it's so it's so absurd but
again I really think it's easy to
underestimate the extent to which all of
that has to come from a place of love
and admiration and positive aspirations
of the future I think that would be
similar I mean look someone like Chris
Rock making fun of black radical
politics or something you know it can't
come from an absolute distaste for you
know black left-wing politics there has
to be some feeling of you know aspiring
to the same things that political
movement aspired to or hope for the
future you know there's gotta be found
love in the game what's adding to me is
you know the respect and admiration he
had for me is gone needles to say the
respected admiration he had for veganism
as a concept and a movement is gone and
what's left just seems like a bitter
angry shell of a man he hates himself he
self-loathing because he's a failure and
he's even flunked out of veganism apart
from [ __ ] out of this particular you
know fundraising project and so on and
you know you might think that bitterness
is a great source for comedy but it's
not that's what's really instructed to
me about this example I can call missing
people gave you money they donated money
to you because they want to support
another vegan and that's what they
thought you were and this ought to do I
think we should give the money bags to
everyone that donated money to
this animal sanctuary that's what I
think it just feels like a lot of these
people know you're vegan cheetahs your
[ __ ] tato avocados you're so vegans it
seems like these people were never vegan
in the beginning it was just so easy to
say I can be vegan anymore clearly this
is an adult not taking responsibility
for his or her own actions that's what's
going on and that's what go vegan is
trying to say I'm too much of a coward
to blame myself for my mistake this has
nothing to do with the vegan community
and while I go vegan decides not to be
meeting so look as one closing thought
about this I made a comment to another
youtuber recently because this youtuber
was talking on his own channel about
taking on a new direction and I said
he's a guy who does basically news about
stuff that's happening within YouTube I
said look you know what the truth is
what you're doing really is too safe a
YouTube channel that reports on things
happening on other YouTube channels is
never going to have the edge is never
going to have the thrill is never going
to have the profundity or the
entertainment value of a channel that is
actually aspiring to do something
impossible you're way better off try to
set your sights high try to do something
thought impossible try again and again
try a hundred times over and you know
your greatest failures you can put up on
camera put up on put up on YouTube you
can upload and I do think that is the
light and the light behind what's going
on in digital veganism right now however
observed our failures may be whether
they're on a tiny scale or an enormous
scale whether it's a fundraiser to
something build a new farm or it's me
doing a fundraiser to publish my
children's story book I've got the
artist on lock you know show the story
book has been translated into five
languages I've got Japanese Russian
Chinese German English this is great
project let me know whether it's a tiny
project or a huge project whether it's a
weight loss fad or a festival and
Thailand or you know all of veganism
fundamentally is attempting the
impossible trying to save the planet
trying to make the world a better place
trying to convince our own grandparents
to give up eating bacon yeah whether
it's trying to save one person's life
you know as a heart condition but just
won't stop eating animal products will
start feeding you know cheese and and
beef and what have you or it's on the
enormous scale of being worried about
what's happening to our lakes and rivers
air pollution and so on there are so
many dimensions to veganism with a sense
of scale is just bewildering you know it
dwarfs us it makes us feel tiny and
powerless and we are every day
attempting to do the impossible or we're
aspiring to do the impossible whether
that's in protest movements are lobbying
organizations and that I think is the
thrilling energy that makes what we're
all doing here on YouTube exciting and
inspiring and enjoyable whether you're
uploading what I eat in a day videos or
bikini videos or grocery shopping videos
or comedy videos or like me you want to
come on and just talk about your own
life experience and politics in your
hopes of the future okay guys so let's
all try to keep that in mind let's be at
peace with the fact there were a bunch
of people turn on the computers and want
to feel some sense of kinship and
community with other people who share
that positive aspiration to do the
impossible
[Music]